# CHAPTER 6: ADVANCE POD ALLOCATION

## Chapter 6.1: Exploring k8s scheduling

### What is scheduling
the process that asign pod to particular nodes so kubelets can run them.

### scheduling process
Scheduler is control plane component that handles scheduling. it select suitable node for pod running on. it takes into account things like: 

- resource requests vs available node.
- various configurations that effect to scheduling using node labels.

### Node selector
you can configure nodeselector for your pod to limit which node the pods can be scheduled on.
Node selectors use node labels to filter suitable nodes.
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-nginx
    image: nginx.1.19.1
  nodeSelector:
    special: "true"
```
### Nodename
you can bypass scheduling or asigning pod to specific node by name using nodename:
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx.1.19.1
  nodeName: workerNode1
```

### demo

- labeling a node:
` kubectl label nodes <node_name>  key=vaule`
example:
`kubectl label nodes abc.mylabserver.com special=true`

- How to know running pod belong to certain deployment

` kubectl get pod -o wide --show-labels `

## Chapter 6.3: Using Daemonsets
[Daemonsets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/)
### What is Daemonsets
Creating and run a copy of pod on all nodes and every new added node in cluster.

### Daemonsets and scheduling
Daemonsets respect normal scheduling rules around node label, toleration, taints. If pod would not normaly be scheduled on a node, Daemonsets will not create pod on that node.
> Taints assign to node it have 3 effects: NoSchedule (dont allow scheduler that schedule pod to node), PreferNoSchedule (similar to NoSchedule but in case node have enough resource that will be allow pod assigned), NoExecute (affect to new pod and running pod on node)
>
> Daemonsets will not create any pod on control plane node since naster node have no taint

## Chapter 6.5: Static POD
[Create static pod](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/static-pod/)

### What is static POD?
- A pod that created directly by kubelet on node, not by the k8s api. they can run even if there is no k8s api server present	
- kubelete automaticaly creates static pod from the manifest yaml file located in the manifest path on the node.
> default manifest path for static pod of cluster created by kubeadm is ``/etc/kubernetes/manifest`` folder. you just create a normal yaml pod defination file then put it on that folder to create static pod.
>
> Then wait for a while, the kubelete will scan the changes on that folder automaticaly then create static pod as the file, or you can restart kubelete to create immediately.
### Mirror pods
- Kubelet create a mirror pod for each static pod. you will see status of static pod via k8s api through mirror pod. but you can not manage them via by api.
> kubelete will create mirror pod for static pod on master node (in the k8s api) automaticaly for seeing the status of static pod.

### Demo
- Use case of static pod:
The company has built a special diagnostic tool for its K8s nodes. This tool can be run as a container in a K8s Pod, and it collects detailed diagnostic data from the worker node throughout the node lifecycle.
One particularly useful feature is that this tool is able to collect data during the node startup process, before the kubelet begins communicating with the Kubernetes API, or even before a kubelet joins a cluster. To benefit from this, the Pod needs to run without depending on the presence of a Kubernetes API server connection. It will need to be run and managed directly by the kubelet.

