# CHAPTER 7: DEPLOYMENT

## Chapter 7.1: Overview

### What is deployment
a k8s object defines a desired state for a replicaset (a set of replicas pod). It will seek to maintains the desired state by creating deleting and replacing pods with new configuration.

### Desired state
a deployment's desired state includes: 

1. replicas
the number of replica pod that deployment will seek to maintain

2. selector
a label selector used to identify the replicas pod that be managed by deployment.

3. template
a template pod defination used to create replica pod

### Use cases
1. easily scale an application up or down by set the replicas number 

2. performing rolling update for applicaiton version

3. roll back to previous version of software.

## Scaling applications with deployments

### What is Scaling
- Scaling refers to dedicating more (or fewer) resource to application to meet changing resource on k8s.
- Scaling on k8s best perfect for horizontall scaling, which involves changing number of containers running an application.

### Deployment Scaling
Deployment's replicas setting determines how many replicas are desired in its desired state.

### how to scale an deployment 
-by defines the deployment yaml file or via command line 
`kubectl scale deployment.v1.apps/deployment_name --replicas=5 `
- or edit yaml file directly of running deployment. take noticed that ``replicas`` under spec statement instead of under state statement
`kubectl edit deployment deployment-name`

## Managing rolling updates with deployment

### Rolling udpate

Allow you to make change the number of deployment pod. it will gradually replace old pod by new pod without incurring downtime. 
you can use any commandline such as ``kubectl set`` ; `` kubectl edit deployment`` to update deployment

```
kubectl edit deployment my-deployemnt
kubectl rollout status deployment.v1.apps/my-deployemnt		// checking status rolling update

```
### Rollback

Similar to rolling update but this case roll back to old version from new version which cause the problem.

```
kubectl set image deployment/my-deployment <container_name>=image_verison:broken --record 	// record for recording any command make changes status of DEPLOYMENT
kubectl rollout status deployment.v1.apps/my-deployemnt
kubectl rollout history  deployment.v1.apps/my-deployemnt

kubectl rollout undo deployment.v1.apps/my-deployemnt --to-revision=number

// then checking status of rollback process again with

kubectl rollout status deployment.v1.apps/my-deployemnt
```
## Managing kubernetes application with deployment